Add webauthn-java post (#1155)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-04-26-webauthn-java.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Building a WebAuthn Application with Java"
author: john-gramila
by: contractor
communities: [java]
description: "Learn more about the WebAuthn specification and how it can strengthen your application's security. Then build a Java application using WebAuthn for authentication."
tags: [api, webauthn, java, authentication]
tweets:
- "WebAuthn is the future. Are you ready? Find out how to implement it in your work with just a couple of steps, and use Java to build an application that authenticates users in the safest way possible."
- "Having problems with password abuse? A WebAuthn specification lets developers create passwordless applications with an increasingly broad and accessible range of hardware authenticators. Learn how to build your own WebAuthn application with Java here!"
image: blog/webauthn-java/java-webauthn-social.jpg

> type: awareness

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type: awareness
github: https://github.com/oktadev/webauthn-java-example
```

README still needs a link to this blog post (at the bottom).

---

The [Web Authentication (WebAuthn)](https://webauthn.io/) specification, given [official approval](https://www.w3.org/2019/03/pressrelease-webauthn-rec.html) by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) and the FIDO Alliance in 2019, aims to strengthen online security by allowing users to sign in to sites with elements like biometrics and FIDO security keys. The WebAuthn API can replace or supplement less-secure passwords, which may be weak and are often shared.

WebAuthn is supported by default in Firefox and Chrome browsers and can be used in Edge browsers on recent Windows systems. As support for the new standard is built into more devices, more websites will offer this easier, more secure method of authentication.

In this post, I'll explain what WebAuthn is, how it works, and we'll build a Java web application that allows a user to register and log in with a supported WebAuthn device.

> {% include toc.md %}

Reviewer: If I look at this in the [preview](https://deploy-preview-1155--okta-blog.netlify.app/blog/2022/04/26/webauthn-java), I think there are some opportunities for improvement. For example:

- Getting started -> Get started with WebAuthn and Spring Boot
- Data layer -> Data layer overview (or something that explains the section better, maybe add Spring Data JPA)
- An easier way -> An easier way to WebAuthn

## How to authenticate using WebAuthn in Java

In this article, you're going to build a Java application that authenticates users using WebAuthn. To bootstrap a Java web framework that can create and store user sessions, you'll use [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot) to implement the web application, then implement the WebAuthn server, built by the hardware authentication manufacturer [Yubico](https://www.yubico.com/), to create the necessary JSON for the client to create and use credentials.

The final version of the code can be found [here](https://github.com/oktadev/webauthn-java-example). The demo application uses Java 17 and Apache Maven for dependency management.

## Getting started

First, go to the [Spring Initializr page](https://start.spring.io/#!type=maven-project&language=java&&packaging=jar&jvmVersion=17&groupId=com.webauthn&artifactId=app&name=app&description=Demo%20Java%20project%20for%20WebAuthN%20Authentication&packageName=com.webauthn.app&dependencies=lombok,data-jpa,h2,web,thymeleaf) and add your dependencies:

> * **Lombok**: A library for automatically generating Initializer classes, getters, and setters for speed of development.

Reviewer: I don't know if "Initializer" should be here. It might cause confusion because "Spring Initializr".

Author: Good point!
```suggestion
* **Lombok**: A library used to speed up development by automatically generating constructors, getters and setters.
```

* **Spring Web**: To handle web requests.
* **Thymeleaf**: For HTML templating.

After creating and downloading this project, add the [Yubico WebAuthn server dependency](https://github.com/Yubico/java-webauthn-server). The application also needs some server-side caching, used to verify a challenge token that's generated by the server and then provided by the client after a successful authenticator ceremony. This application uses `HttpSession` to track challenge tokens.

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.yubico</groupId>
    <artifactId>webauthn-server-core</artifactId>
    <version>1.12.1</version>
</dependency>
```

## Data layer

The application stores two data object classes: users and credentials. Users are people using the system, and they can have multiple credentials. Credentials contain the information needed to identify and verify a device implementing Client to Authenticator (CTAP2) protocol. CTAP2 is a spec that describes communication between a roaming authenticator and another client/platform at the application layer, as well as bindings to a variety of transport protocols that use different physical media.

### User data

> There are two goals for the user data: track the existence and uniqueness of the user and their credentials, and enable the creation of two JavaScript objectsdictionaries for the browser to make WebAuthn API requests: [`PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/create) for registration and [`PublicKeyCredentialRequestOptions`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredentialRequestOptions) for authentication.

Reviewer: objectsdictionaries seems like a typo.

> There are two goals for the user data: track the existence and uniqueness of the user and their credentials, and enable the creation of two JavaScript objectsdictionaries for the browser to make WebAuthn API requests: [`PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/create) for registration and [`PublicKeyCredentialRequestOptions`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredentialRequestOptions) for authentication.

Author: ```suggestion
There are two goals for the user data: track the existence and uniqueness of the user and their credentials, and enable the creation of two JavaScript objects for the browser to make WebAuthn API requests: [`PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/create) for registration and [`PublicKeyCredentialRequestOptions`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredentialRequestOptions) for authentication.
```

Using Spring JPA, the `AppUser` data class starts with traditional fields for organizing users in a system, an `id` for database lookup, and a unique `username` to enable user self-identification.

> There are also fields that the server needs to create the WebAuthn requests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `displayName` and `handle` fields are used by the server to create WebAuthn requests:
```

```java
import com.yubico.webauthn.data.ByteArray;
import lombok.Getter;
import lombok.NoArgsConstructor;

import javax.persistence.Column;
import javax.persistence.Entity;
import javax.persistence.GeneratedValue;
import javax.persistence.GenerationType;
import javax.persistence.Id;
import javax.persistence.Lob;

@Entity
@Getter
@NoArgsConstructor
public class AppUser {
    @Id
    @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.AUTO)
    private Long id;

    @Column(nullable = false, unique = true)
    private String username;

    @Column(nullable = false)
    private String displayName;

    @Lob
    @Column(nullable = false, length = 64)
    private ByteArray handle;
}
```

> The name field is set by the user. It is intended to be displayed by UI elements on the client as part of the registration and authentication process, but it's also entirely optional in the WebAuthn process. According to the [WebAuthn Specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-1/#sctn-user-handle-privacy), a nickname string like `username` is not suitable for identification, so WebAuthn identity requests are made using a user handle, a byte sequence with a maximum length of 64.

Reviewer: > The name field is set by the user.

Should this be "username" field?

> Byte data (like the user handle) is stored in the database as a Binary Large Object. To convert these data fields to the `ByteArray` object the application uses, the application implements a JPA `AttributeConverter` class with the `Converter` annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Byte data (like the user handle) is stored in the database as a binary large object (BLOB). To convert these data fields to the `ByteArray` object the application uses, the application implements a JPA `AttributeConverter` class with the `Converter` annotation.
```

Because https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_large_object

```java
import com.yubico.webauthn.data.ByteArray;
import javax.persistence.AttributeConverter;
import javax.persistence.Converter;

@Converter(autoApply = true)
public class ByteArrayAttributeConverter implements AttributeConverter<ByteArray, byte[]> {

    @Override
    public byte[] convertToDatabaseColumn(ByteArray attribute) {
        return attribute.getBytes();
    }

    @Override
    public ByteArray convertToEntityAttribute(byte[] dbData) {
        return new ByteArray(dbData);
    }
}
```

> The application converts data classes into Java objects provided by the Yubico library that can produce JSON-formatted strings the client will pass to the WebAuthn API. The `toUserIdentity` function converts a `AuthUser` data class to a `UserIdentity` object that can access the username, the screen name, and the all-important user handle. Traditional property getters are created with the Lombok `@Getter` annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application converts data classes into Java objects provided by the Yubico library that can produce JSON-formatted strings the client will pass to the WebAuthn API. The `toUserIdentity()` function converts a `AuthUser` data class to a `UserIdentity` object that can access the username, the screen name, and the all-important user handle. Traditional property getters are created with the Lombok `@Getter` annotation.
```

```java
import com.yubico.webauthn.RegistrationResult;
import com.yubico.webauthn.data.AttestedCredentialData;
import com.yubico.webauthn.data.AuthenticatorAttestationResponse;
import com.yubico.webauthn.data.ByteArray;
import lombok.Getter;
import lombok.NoArgsConstructor;

import javax.persistence.Column;
import javax.persistence.Entity;
import javax.persistence.GeneratedValue;
import javax.persistence.GenerationType;
import javax.persistence.Id;
import javax.persistence.Lob;
import javax.persistence.ManyToOne;
import java.util.Optional;

@Entity
@Getter
@NoArgsConstructor
public class Authenticator {

    @Id
    @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.AUTO)
    private Long id;

    @Column
    private String name;

    @Lob
    @Column(nullable = false)
    private ByteArray credentialId;

    @Lob
    @Column(nullable = false)
    private ByteArray publicKey;

    @ManyToOne

>     private AppUser user;

Reviewer: Is there a missing } here?

Author: This original intent was to break up the block with some context.

But I'll move that to a comment block or a notes at the bottom to avoid confusion

```

The authenticator potentially provides a range of additional information. This application stores some of it to enable functionality that could be useful for a production-quality web authentication project.

```java

>     @Column(nullable = false)
>     private Long count;
> 
>     @Lob
>     @Column(nullable = true)
>     private ByteArray aaguid;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@Column(nullable = false)
private Long count;

@Lob
@Column(nullable = true)
private ByteArray aaguid;
```

```java
import java.util.List;
import java.util.Optional;

import com.yubico.webauthn.data.ByteArray;
import org.springframework.data.repository.CrudRepository;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Repository;

@Repository
public interface AuthenticatorRepository extends CrudRepository<Authenticator, Long> {
    Optional<Authenticator> findByCredentialId(ByteArray credentialId);
    List<Authenticator> findAllByUser (AppUser user);
    List<Authenticator> findAllByCredentialId(ByteArray credentialId);
}
```

## Application properties

Create a configuration bean to hold the application's properties:

```java
import java.util.Set;
import org.springframework.boot.context.properties.ConfigurationProperties;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;
import lombok.Getter;
import lombok.Setter;

@Configuration
@Getter
@Setter
@ConfigurationProperties(prefix = "authn")
public class WebAuthProperties {
    private String hostName;
    private String display;
    private Set<String> origin;
}
```

Add configuration for localhost in your `src/main/resources/application.properties`:

```properties
authn.hostname=localhost

> authn.display=Otka WebAuthn Sample Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authn.display=Okta WebAuthn Sample Application
```

Does this app use Okta? If not, we might want to name it `Spring Boot WebAuthn Sample Application`

> authn.display=Otka WebAuthn Sample Application

Author: ```suggestion
authn.display=Spring Boot WebAuthn Sample Application
```

```

## Implementing the WebAuthn server library

Now that the data classes exist, the next step is building classes that retrieve and store data from the WebAuthn API. Yubico provides the [`CredentialRepository`](https://github.com/Yubico/java-webauthn-server/blob/master/webauthn-server-core/src/main/java/com/yubico/webauthn/CredentialRepository.java) interface to handle credential storage and lookup. The demo application's `RegistrationService` class overrides the five functions needed for the interface to function.

```java
import com.yubico.webauthn.CredentialRepository;
import com.yubico.webauthn.RegisteredCredential;
import com.yubico.webauthn.data.ByteArray;
import com.yubico.webauthn.data.PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Repository;
import lombok.Getter;

import java.util.List;
import java.util.Optional;
import java.util.Set;
import java.util.stream.Collectors;

@Getter
@Repository
public class RegistrationService implements CredentialRepository {

    @Autowired
    private UserRepository userRepo;

    @Autowired
    private AuthenticatorRepository authRepository;

>   // methods added in next section    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // methods added in next section    
```

}
```

### Data interface

> The `getCredentialIdsForUsername` function is used during credential registration. Any associated credential IDs stored in the database are returned as a set of [`PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor`](https://developers.yubico.com/java-webauthn-server/JavaDoc/webauthn-server-core/1.5.0/com/yubico/webauthn/data/PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor.html) objects. This list of existing credential IDs is [passed to the WebAuthn API](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/#dom-publickeycredentialcreationoptions-excludecredentials) as a list of excluded credentials to prevent the same credential from being registered twice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getCredentialIdsForUsername()` function is used during credential registration. Any associated credential IDs stored in the database are returned as a set of [`PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor`](https://developers.yubico.com/java-webauthn-server/JavaDoc/webauthn-server-core/1.5.0/com/yubico/webauthn/data/PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor.html) objects. This list of existing credential IDs is [passed to the WebAuthn API](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/#dom-publickeycredentialcreationoptions-excludecredentials) as a list of excluded credentials to prevent the same credential from being registered twice.
```

```java
@Override
public Set<PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor> getCredentialIdsForUsername(String username) {
    AppUser user = userRepo.findByUsername(username);
    List<Authenticator> auth = authRepository.findAllByUser(user);
    return auth.stream()
            .map(credential ->
                PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor.builder()
                    .id(credential.getCredentialId())
                    .build())
            .collect(Collectors.toSet());
}
```

> The `getUserHandleForUsername` function is called during credential authentication when the user provides a username. The authenticator looks up generated credentials with the help of the user handle byte array, which the server needs to store for this purpose. The demo application uses this function to look up the user handle that's passed into the `navigator.credential.get()` function in the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getUserHandleForUsername()` function is called during credential authentication when the user provides a username. The authenticator looks up generated credentials with the help of the user handle byte array, which the server needs to store for this purpose. The demo application uses this function to look up the user handle that's passed into the `navigator.credential.get()` function in the browser.
```

```java
@Override
public Optional<ByteArray> getUserHandleForUsername(String username) {
    AppUser user = userRepo.findByUsername(username);
    return Optional.of(user.getHandle());
}
```

> The `getUsernameForUserHandle` function lets applications handle logins without usernames. The server organizes and recognizes users by means of usernames, but only user handles are necessary for the WebAuthn API to function. `getUsernameForUserHandle` can be used in login flows that don't require usernames up front. Hypothetically, an application could entirely dispense with usernames and identify users exclusively by unique byte array identifiers, though this application does not explore that possibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getUsernameForUserHandle()` function lets applications handle logins without usernames. The server organizes and recognizes users by means of usernames, but only user handles are necessary for the WebAuthn API to function. `getUsernameForUserHandle` can be used in login flows that don't require usernames up front. Hypothetically, an application could entirely dispense with usernames and identify users exclusively by unique byte array identifiers, though this application does not explore that possibility.
```

> The `getUsernameForUserHandle` function lets applications handle logins without usernames. The server organizes and recognizes users by means of usernames, but only user handles are necessary for the WebAuthn API to function. `getUsernameForUserHandle` can be used in login flows that don't require usernames up front. Hypothetically, an application could entirely dispense with usernames and identify users exclusively by unique byte array identifiers, though this application does not explore that possibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getUsernameForUserHandle()` function lets applications handle logins without usernames. The server organizes and recognizes users by means of usernames, but only user handles are necessary for the WebAuthn API to function. `getUsernameForUserHandle` can be used in login flows that don't require usernames upfront. Hypothetically, an application could entirely dispense with usernames and identify users exclusively by unique byte array identifiers, though this application does not explore that possibility.
```

upfront was a grammarly suggestion

```java
@Override
public Optional<String> getUsernameForUserHandle(ByteArray userHandle) {
    AppUser user = userRepo.findByHandle(userHandle);
    return Optional.of(user.getUsername());
}
```

> The `lookup` function is active during the final step of credential verification. A registered authenticator provides an assertion signature and a credential ID to the browser's WebAuthn API, which is sent to the server. The server looks up a stored credential using the credential ID and user handle provided by the authenticator. At this point, the server will use the object returned by this lookup function to validate the assertion signature (and optionally the signature count) from the authenticator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `lookup()` function is active during the final step of credential verification. A registered authenticator provides an assertion signature and a credential ID to the browser's WebAuthn API, which is sent to the server. The server looks up a stored credential using the credential ID and user handle provided by the authenticator. At this point, the server will use the object returned by this lookup function to validate the assertion signature (and optionally the signature count) from the authenticator.
```

```java
@Override
public Optional<RegisteredCredential> lookup(ByteArray credentialId, ByteArray userHandle) {
    Optional<Authenticator> auth = authRepository.findByCredentialId(credentialId);
    return auth.map(credential ->
        RegisteredCredential.builder()
            .credentialId(credential.getCredentialId())
            .userHandle(credential.getUser().getHandle())
            .publicKeyCose(credential.getPublicKey())
            .signatureCount(credential.getCount())
            .build()
    );
}
```

> In a similar way, the `lookupAll` function returns a set of `RegisteredCredential` objects. Instead of validating the authenticator's signature, this function ensures that there aren't multiple credentials registered with the same credential ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a similar way, the `lookupAll()` function returns a set of `RegisteredCredential` objects. Instead of validating the authenticator's signature, this function ensures that there aren't multiple credentials registered with the same credential ID.
```

Create an `AuthController` class:

```java
import com.yubico.webauthn.RelyingParty;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Controller;

@Controller
public class AuthController {

    private RelyingParty relyingParty;
    private RegistrationService service;

    AuthController(RegistrationService service, RelyingParty relyingPary) {
        this.relyingParty = relyingPary;
        this.service = service;
    }
    
    @GetMapping("/")
    public String welcome() {
        return "index";
    }
    
    @GetMapping("/login")
    public String loginPage() {
        return "login";
    }

    @GetMapping("/register")
    public String registerUser(Model model) {
        return "register";
    }
}
```

Both registration and authentication ceremonies happen in two steps. The client makes an initial request to the server with some identifier. The code below uses the username, but the user handle works as well. After prompting the user for a unique username, the server constructs a `PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions` for registration, which contains the user handle, the domain of the key, and a challenge token.

> #### Registration endpoints

Reviewer: This section seems like it could use a sentence as an intro. Or remove the #### header.

Author: Replaced with a bold block

            + " already exists. Choose a new name.");
    }
}

@PostMapping("/registerauth")
@ResponseBody
public String newAuthRegistration(@RequestParam AppUser user, HttpSession session) {
    AppUser existingUser = service.getUserRepo().findByHandle(user.getHandle());
    if (existingUser != null) {
        UserIdentity userIdentity = user.toUserIdentity();
        StartRegistrationOptions registrationOptions = StartRegistrationOptions.builder()
            .user(userIdentity)
            .build();
        PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions registration = relyingParty.startRegistration(registrationOptions);
        session.setAttribute(userIdentity.getDisplayName(), registration);
        try {
            return registration.toCredentialsCreateJson();
        } catch (JsonProcessingException e) {
            throw new ResponseStatusException(HttpStatus.INTERNAL_SERVER_ERROR,
                "Error processing JSON.", e);
        }
    } else {
        throw new ResponseStatusException(HttpStatus.CONFLICT, "User " + user.getUsername() 
            + " does not exist. Please register.");
    }
}
```

> #### Authentication endpoints

Reviewer: Same as above. Showing code w/o an explanation seems wierd.

            .request(request)
            .response(pkc)
            .build());
        if (result.isSuccess()) {
            model.addAttribute("username", username);
            return "welcome";
        } else {
            return "index";
        }
    } catch (IOException e) {
        throw new RuntimeException("Authentication failed", e);
    } catch (AssertionFailedException e) {
        throw new RuntimeException("Authentication failed", e);
    }
}
```

> **NOTE:** These requests require server state to work properly. The authentication request includes a challenge nonce generated as part of the `StartRegistrationOptions` and `AssertionRequest` objects. The reply from the client must include this nonce, so the server uses the session to cache the short-lived challenge by caching the full registration (or assertion) request object.

Information is sent to the browser, where it's encoded and passed to the WebAuthn API as a [`PublicKeyCredential` object](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PublicKeyCredential). The response containing all the data needed for verification is sent to the server and used to create or verify a credential.

> #### Registration ceremony

Reviewer: This heading isn't great. Maybe `Start the registration ceremony`?

Author: ```suggestion
#### Start the registration ceremony
```

To kick off the registration ceremony, the client submits a uniquely identifying piece of information using a `fetch` request—in this case, a username. The server verifies that the username is unique and then creates and saves a 16-byte user handle. Configuration information about the server (like hostname and origin) was included in the `RelyingParty` bean when the server was created. This bean takes a `PublicKeyCredentialRequestOptions` object to collect the user information, and generates a challenge field, a random buffer of at least 16 bytes long. This object is cached on the server to preserve the challenge field, then turned into a JSON string and sent to the client.

Once the information is received by the client, it's parsed into a JavaScript [`PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions`](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/#dictionary-makecredentialoptions) object. Then it is passed into the `navigator.credentials.create()` function as a `publicKey` option.

> > **IMPORTANT:** You will need to grab the client code from the example's [GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/webauthn-java-example/tree/main/src/main/resources) repository.  Copy the `static` and `templates` folders to your project's `src/main/resources` directory.

Reviewer: Add `wget` (or something similar) commands to this blockquote to download the files with copy/paste.

```javascript

>     .then(credentialCreateJson => ({
>         publicKey: {
>             ...credentialCreateJson.publicKey,
>             challenge: base64urlToUint8array(credentialCreateJson.publicKey.challenge),
>         user: {
>             ...credentialCreateJson.publicKey.user,
>             id: base64urlToUint8array(credentialCreateJson.publicKey.user.id),
>         },
>         excludeCredentials: credentialCreateJson.publicKey.excludeCredentials.map(credential => ({
>             ...credential,
>             id: base64urlToUint8array(credential.id),
>         })),
>         extensions: credentialCreateJson.publicKey.extensions,
>         },
>     }))
>     .then(credentialCreateOptions =>
>         navigator.credentials.create(credentialCreateOptions))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.then(credentialCreateJson => ({
    publicKey: {
        ...credentialCreateJson.publicKey,
        challenge: base64urlToUint8array(credentialCreateJson.publicKey.challenge),
    user: {
        ...credentialCreateJson.publicKey.user,
        id: base64urlToUint8array(credentialCreateJson.publicKey.user.id),
    },
    excludeCredentials: credentialCreateJson.publicKey.excludeCredentials.map(credential => ({
        ...credential,
        id: base64urlToUint8array(credential.id),
    })),
    extensions: credentialCreateJson.publicKey.extensions,
    },
}))
.then(credentialCreateOptions =>
    navigator.credentials.create(credentialCreateOptions))
```

Left-align code blocks.

```

> The browser checks with whatever source of authentication is available to it using the `Client to Authenticator Protocol` version two (CTAP2). This check can be implemented by the operating system, browser, or by a standalone authentication device connected by USB or Bluetooth. This device generates a series of fields—the most important are `credentialId` and `publicKey` (generated from a private key the authenticator should never share). Next, the browser collates this information into a `PublicKeyCredential`, which is turned into a JSON object, stringified, and sent back to the server.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this should be wrapped in back ticks. It causes a weird break in the paragraph.

```javascript

>     .then(publicKeyCredential => ({
>         type: publicKeyCredential.type,
>         id: publicKeyCredential.id,
>         response: {
>         attestationObject: uint8arrayToBase64url(publicKeyCredential.response.attestationObject),
>         clientDataJSON: uint8arrayToBase64url(publicKeyCredential.response.clientDataJSON),
>         transports: publicKeyCredential.response.getTransports && publicKeyCredential.response.getTransports() || [],
>         },
>         clientExtensionResults: publicKeyCredential.getClientExtensionResults(),
>     }))
>     .then((encodedResult) => {
>         const form = document.getElementById("form");
>         const formData = new FormData(form);
>         formData.append("credential", JSON.stringify(encodedResult));
>         return fetch("/finishauth", {
>             method: 'POST',
>             body: formData
>         })
>     })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.then(publicKeyCredential => ({
    type: publicKeyCredential.type,
    id: publicKeyCredential.id,
    response: {
    attestationObject: uint8arrayToBase64url(publicKeyCredential.response.attestationObject),
    clientDataJSON: uint8arrayToBase64url(publicKeyCredential.response.clientDataJSON),
    transports: publicKeyCredential.response.getTransports && publicKeyCredential.response.getTransports() || [],
    },
    clientExtensionResults: publicKeyCredential.getClientExtensionResults(),
}))
.then((encodedResult) => {
    const form = document.getElementById("form");
    const formData = new FormData(form);
    formData.append("credential", JSON.stringify(encodedResult));
    return fetch("/finishauth", {
        method: 'POST',
        body: formData
    })
})
```

```

The server receives the `PublicKeyCredential` object and verifies the challenge field against the cached `PublicKeyCredentialCreationOptions` object. It checks the origin of the response, then creates a new credential data object by saving the `PublicKey` and `credentialId`. The server also saves some helpful information like a user-friendly name, the associated `user_id` for username and user handle lookup, and the AAGUID field associated with the authenticator. In addition, it creates a count field for tracking the number of times the credential has been used. A simple application would probably only need to store `publicKey` and `credentialId` for the credential.

{% img blog/webauthn-java/reg-page.png alt:"Register authentication frontend" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> ### Client JavaScript

Reviewer: Client JavaScript walkthrough or overview might be better

Author: ```suggestion
### Client JavaScript overview
```

{% img blog/webauthn-java/login-page.png alt:"Sign-in with authentication frontend" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

### Testing the application

To test this application, pull out any [CTAP2-compliant authentication device](https://fidoalliance.org/certification/fido-certified-products/). The easiest is activating WebAuthn emulation in [Chrome](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/webauthn/). Using one of these devices, open the network inspector and watch the network requests to get a sense of the data passed back and forth between the client and server.

There are other devices that can be used for WebAuthn. For a complete list, you can do a search for [FIDO-certified products](https://fidoalliance.org/certification/fido-certified-products/):

* Chromebook PIN
* Windows Hello
* YubiKey
* Apple Touch ID

> {% img blog/webauthn-java/app-welcome-page.png alt:"Successful authentication" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: It seems like this could use something like instructions to start the Spring Boot app and open a browser at 8080, etc. Or maybe just something that says you should see this image after authenticating.
